\section*{Introduction}
Drug addiction is often treated in a rehabilitation clinic, and relapse occurs
when the patient returns to the original context of their drug use (Higgins,
Budney, \& Bickel, 1995). How can we engineer treatments that generalize between
contexts? Our earlier work \cite{crossley_erasing_2013} showed that
``feedback contingency'' --- used here to indicate the degree of randomness
between response and outcome --- may play a pivotal role in answering this
question.

Crossley et al. (2013) studied procedural modification in a procedural category
learning task. Their experiments contained three phases of equal duration:
acquisition, intervention, and test. Participants were trained on the category
structure shown in panel C of Figure \ref{fig:test_cats} during the acquisition
phase. During the intervention phase, the underlying category structure was not
changed, but feedback was manipulated (described in the next paragraph) in an
attempt to erase the learning that occurred during the acquisition phase. During
the test phase, feedback was returned to 100\% veridical (as was the case during
acquisition). Participants in the Relearning condition were tested on the
original acquisition category-response mappings, while participants in the New
Learning condition were tested on a permuted category-response mapping. If the original
acquisition phase learning was preserved through intervention, then test phase
performance in the Relearning condition should be better than acquisition phase
performance (i.e., participants should show savings), and test phase performance
in the New Learning condition should be worse than acquisition phase performance
(due to interference from initial learning).

\begin{figure}[t]
  \centering \includegraphics[width=1.0\textwidth]{../figures/fig_trials.pdf}
  \caption{
    \textbf{A:} An Example trial during single-task conditions.
    \textbf{B:} An example trial during dual-task conditions.
    \textbf{C:} The II categories used during the acquisition phase of
    Crossley et al. (2013).
  }
  \label{fig:test_cats}
\end{figure}

The changes in feedback used during the intervention phase were chosen by
considering classic models of procedural learning (panel A of Figure
\ref{fig:models}), that extend from classic models of associative learning.
These models assume that procedural knowledge is learned at cortico-striatal
synapses via DA-dependent synaptic plasticity. Consistent with the classic view
that procedural knowledge is robust against forgetting, simply removing feedback
during intervention did not cause any substantial performance change (data not
shown). Therefore, an intervention phase with completely random feedback was
used (i.e., correct feedback was randomly given 25\% of the time). Classic
models predict that this intervention will replace initially acquired S-R
associations with random strengths, thereby leading to identical or attenuated
performance during the test phase in both the Relearning and the New Learning
conditions. Contrary to this prediction, the results showed that this random
feedback intervention did not disrupt category knowledge. During the test phase,
performance relative to initial acquisition was enhanced in the Relearning
condition, and attenuated in the New Learning condition; both suggesting savings
(left panel of Figure \ref{fig:unlearning_data}).

\begin{figure}[h]
  \centering \includegraphics[width=1.0\textwidth]{../figures/fig_models.pdf}
  \caption{ \textbf{A: The Classic Model.} A classic model of procedural
    learning based on a greatly simplified representation of the ``direct pathway''
    through the basal ganglia. S-R associations are learned at cortico-striatal
    synapses, which are modified via dopamine-dependent reinforcement learning. The
    likelihood of repeating actions that lead to \emph{unexpected} positive outcomes
    is gradually increased, and the likelihood of repeating actions that lead to
    \emph{unexpected} negative outcomes is gradually decreased. \textbf{B: The
      TANs Model.} The classic model of procedural learning with the the
    addition of a context-specific Pf-TAN pathway. This pathway acts as a gate on
    cortico-striatal synaptic plasticity, permitting or preventing the learning and
    expression of procedural knowledge. (MSN - medium spiny neuron of the striatum. D1 -
    Direct pathway MSN expressing the D1 DA receptor. D2 - Indirect pathway MSN
    expressing the D2 DA receptor. SMA - Supplementary Motor Area. SNpc - substantia
    nigra pars compacta. Pf - parafascicular nucleus of the thalamus. VIS - visual
    cortex)}
  \label{fig:models}
\end{figure}

The random feedback intervention result implies that \textit{there is a gating
mechanism that protects procedural learning from modification during random
feedback.} One candidate biological system for this gating mechanism are
striatal cholinergic interneurons called TANs for Tonically Active Neurons. It
is thought that these neurons mediate cortico-striatal synaptic plasticity via
presynaptic inhibition of cortical inputs to the striatum (Figure
\ref{fig:models}). As their name suggests, the TANs are tonically active in
their default state; however, they learn to pause their firing when stimuli that
predict reward are encountered. This allows striatal neurons to respond to
cortical input, and cortico-striatal learning to take place. The TANs are driven
by the parafascicular (Pf) nucleus in the thalamus, which signals salient
environmental cues; their pause response occurs only when the Pf-TAN synapse is
strong. The learning at both Pf-TAN synapses and the cortico-striatal synapses
are driven via the DA reinforcement signal.

An updated procedural learning model that includes the TAN gating mechanism has
been shown to account for a variety of behavioral and physiological data from
simple instrumental conditioning tasks
\cite{ashby_computational_2011,crossley_expanding_2016}, including rapid
relearning following extinction. However, the model fails to account for the
random feedback results described above. This failure stems from the way DA
activity is modeled. In the model, DA firing reflects a reward prediction error
(RPE; the difference between the obtained and expected outcome), and since
random feedback is \emph{by definition} completely unpredictable, it leads to
persistent RPEs and corresponding DA fluctuations during random feedback. These
fluctuations prevent the TANs from closing the gate on cortico-striatal
plasticity, and thereby permit random feedback to disrupt initial learning.

In order for the TANs to reliably close the gate and protect cortico-striatal
plasticity during random feedback, two conditions must be met:

\begin{description}
\item \textit{1. The model must detect when feedback has become random.} Random
  feedback is defined as being completely non-contingent on action. Therefore,
  there is zero correlation between response confidence and feedback. We refer to
  this correlation as \textit{feedback contingency}.

\item \textit{2. The TANs must close the gate when random feedback is detected.} This
  only occurs when Pf-TAN synapses undergo consistent weakening. This was modeled
  \cite{crossley_erasing_2013} by assuming that the magnitude of \textit{the DA
    response is attenuated and biased below baseline when feedback contingency is
    low.}
\end{description}

With this modification to the DA system, the model not only accounts for savings
in relearning after random feedback intervention, but also makes a novel
prediction: \textit{Mixed feedback (a mixture of random and veridical feedback)
  should prevent the TANs from completely closing the gate on cortico-striatal
  plasticity, enabling modification of initial learning.} This prediction was born
out empirically (panel B of Figure \ref{fig:unlearning_data}). That is,
performance during the Test phase was identical in the Relearning and New
Learning conditions, and each was significantly different from initial learning.

However, the rate of positive feedback received during mixed feedback
intervention was greater than that received during random feedback intervention
(note the different accuracy levels during the intervention phase in panels A
and B of Figure \ref{fig:unlearning_data}). To address this confound, Crossley
et al. (2013) examined performance with an intervention composed of random
feedback with a positive feedback rate of 40\%. This intervention increased the
overall positive feedback rate, but since it was entirely random, feedback
contingency was still zero. The results from this experiment are shown in panel
C of Figure \ref{fig:unlearning_data}, and are virtually identical to the
results obtained with random feedback (25\% positive) intervention (panel A,
Figure \ref{fig:unlearning_data}). Thus, mixed feedback intervention may
constitute an effective intervention for procedural modification.

\begin{figure}[h]
  \centering \includegraphics[width=1.0\textwidth]{../figures/fig_unlearning_results.pdf}
  \caption{
    Behavioral results with different interventions. \textbf{A:} Random
    feedback intervention with 25\% positive feedback. Accuracy drops to near chance
    during intervention, but is reacquired faster than original learning in the
    Relearning condition (red). In contrast, a lasting interference is observed in
    the New Learning condition (blue). Both results are consistent with the
    hypothesis that initial learning was not overwritten by random feedback.
    \textbf{B:} Mixed feedback intervention. Accuracy drops during intervention --
    though not to chance (i.e., 25\%) -- but subsequent learning proceeds at
    approximately the same rate and to the same extent as initial learning when
    either the original category-response mappings (red) or new category-response
    mappings (blue) are introduced. These results are consistent with the hypothesis
    that initial learning was overwritten during the intervention. \textbf{C:}
    Random feedback intervention with 40\% positive feedback. Results are
    qualitatively identical to random feedback intervention with 25\% positive
    feedback, implying that the mixed feedback results were driven by feedback
    contingency and not by positive feedback. }
  \label{fig:unlearning_data}
\end{figure}

Crossley et al. (2013) suggests that the gate on procedural learning --- and
therefore the key to procedural modification --- is controlled by the degree of
feedback contingency. Our model, however, is not explicit in how this
contingency is computed by the nervous system. Here, we begin answering
that question. We ask whether or not feedback contingency is computed via
declarative mechanisms (e.g., prefrontal networks involved in working memory and
executive reasoning). Our rationale is as follows: If feedback contingency is
computed by declarative mechanisms, then increasing cognitive load during
intervention via the concurrent performance of an additional task should disrupt
the accurate detection of random feedback, the TANs gate should remain open, and
procedural knowledge should be vulnerable to modification. 

We performed an experiment that mimicked the design of Crossley et al. (2013),
except we add a Numerical Stroop task performed concurrently with the
classification task during key trials. In conditions 1 through 3, performance of
the Stroop task began 50 trials before the onset of intervention, and continued
for 100, 200, or 300 trials. In Condition 4 performance of the Stroop task began
50 trials after the onset of intervention, and continued for 250 trials.
Comparing conditions 1 through 3 to condition 4 will allow us to assess the
importance of disrupting the estimation of feedback contingency during the phase
transition from acquisition to intervention. Condition 5 was a control condition
in which no concurrent Stroop task was ever performed. This will be reflected by
two behavioral markers: (1) dual-task trials should slow the change in
classification performance during intervention, and (2) dual-task conditions
should show reduced savings relative to the no dual-task control.